Thanks to Tim O'Reilly first, for contracting me to write the OPEN LOOK
version of Volume Three in O'Reilly's X series and then, much later, after
the COSE/CDE announcement when it became clear that O'Reilly could not
economically publish the book, for allowing me to publish it on this
CD-ROM, and for arranging a deal for including Volume 7 that made it
economically feasible. Thanks also to Linda Walsh and Lenny Muellner
of O'Reilly for their help.

My wife, Betty Cerar, believed in the project and helped out in
so many ways that I cannot list them.

Liam Quin, my colleague at SoftQuad for many years, provided invaluable 
help. Lee wrote and maintained the OPEN LOOK Usenet FAQ, and his 
intimate knowledge of certain technical details of OPEN LOOK, 
OpenWindows, and computer font technology has been most useful.

Yuri Rubinsky and Bill Clarke of SoftQuad management provided their 
own flavors of support for the project.

John Gilmore of Cygnus Support provided moral support, and help in finding 
bits and pieces of Sun material to include.

Sun Microsystems released the OPEN LOOK toolkit XView into the contributed
software portion of X11R5, making it the only commercial X toolkit that
is freely available in source code form. Thanks, Sun; it was a valiant
effort to make OPEN LOOK become "the" standard GUI for X11.

Eric Youngdale <ericy@gnu.ai.mit.edu> wrote the "mkisofs" utility
used to pre-master the CD-ROM.

Charles Poynton provided technical notes that helped in the
preparation of the PDF versions of the XView textbooks.

Of course the many authors of the free software programs for XView,
OLIT, NeWS, SunView, etc., included here must be thanked as well.

Of all of these it can be said that "without them, this disk would not be."
Thank you, one and all.

To anyone I have overlooked, my apologies in advance.

Ian Darwin
Darwin Open Systems
1995

The XView Toolkit and ol*wm window managers require the following
acknowledgement:

	(C) Copyright 1989 Sun Microsystems, Inc. Sun design patents
	pending in the U.S. and foreign countries. OPEN LOOK is a 
	trademark of Novell Inc (formerly AT&T). Used by written 
	permission of the owners.
 
	(C) copyright Bigelow & Holmes 1986, 1985. Lucida is a registered 
	trademark of Bigelow & Holmes. Permission to use the Lucida 
	trademark is hereby granted only in association with the images 
	and fonts described in this file.

P.S. The latest version of the ever-changing UNIX trademark is:
"UNIX is a registered trademark in the United States and other countries
 licensed exclusively through X/Open Comany Limited."  So noted.
